---
title: Brisbane 26-28th November 2018
date: 2018-10-11
course-start: 2018-11-26
course-type: both
authors: schalmers
project: professional-fp-courses 
---

<!-- options for course-type: intro|applied|both -->

Queensland Functional Programming Lab, a Data61/CSIRO and Queensland Government initiative, are running two free 3-day Functional Programming courses in Brisbane, 26th to 28th November 2018:

* The well-known **Introduction to Functional Programming** course that has been run by Data61 for over 5 years. This course is targeted toward people who have some amount of programming experience, but little or no exposure to Functional Programming.

* The other is the **Applied Functional Programming** course. This course material is targeted toward programmers who have become proficient with navigating Functional Programming concepts and would like to progress to building a complete application.

#### Please Note

The Introductory and Applied courses are being run in __different__ locations, see below for details and be sure to check which location you need to be at for the course you choose.

#### Program Details

* **Date:** Monday 26 November 2018 – Wednesday 28 November 2018
* **Time:** 0900 – 1700 *(UTC+10)*

* **INTRO COURSE - Location:** Level 2, Room 273, Global Change Institute Group Learning Room, Building #20. University of Queensland, St Lucia.
* **INTRO COURSE - Map Link:** [OpenStreetMap](https://osm.org/go/ueD0ujxvt)

* **APPLIED COURSE - Location:** Level 2, The Precinct, TC Beirne Building, 315 Brunswick St, Fortitude Valley
* **APPLIED COURSE - Map Link:** [QFPL](https://qfpl.io/location)

* **Cost:** Free.
* *lunch is provided*

Refer to [the project page](http://qfpl.io/projects/professional-fp-courses/) for more information about each specific course, including required preparation before attendance.

#### Registration

Registration is currently closed as we've reached capacity!

If places become available we will announce the details via our twitter [\@queenslandfplab](https://twitter.com/queenslandfplab).

<!-- 
Please register your interest [here](https://goo.gl/forms/mhOsXARi23niCLoA2). 
-->
