---
title: Brisbane 10-12 July 2019
date: 2019-06-20
authors: tmorris
project: professional-fp-courses
course-start: 2019-07-10
course-type: both
---

The Queensland Functional Programming Lab, a Data61/CSIRO and Queensland Government initiative, is running a free 3-day Functional Programming workshop in Brisbane, 10-12 July 2019. The workshop will be split into two tracks of focus:

1. **Introduction to Functional Programming**. This is the traditional workshop that has been run by Data61 for many years. This track is targeted toward people who have some basic programming experience, but little or no exposure to Functional Programming.

2. **Applied Functional Programming**. This is course material that is targeted toward programmers who have become proficient with navigating Functional Programming concepts, and in particular, Haskell data structures. This course material involves writing a web application with a database backend.

# Who should attend?

Anyone who is interested in Functional Programming (FP) is encouraged to register. The introductory workshop track is designed to be inclusive and requires no prior experience with functional programming.  Each session will be instructed by team members of the QFPL and you will be using the Haskell programming language to help you along your path of FP discovery. The Applied FP track will also be instructed by QFPL team members.

# Program Details

* **Date:** Wednesday 10 July 2019 – Friday 12 July 2019
* **Time:** 0900 – 1700 *(UTC+10)*
* **Location:** Level 2, TC Beirne Centre, 315 Brunswick St, Fortitude Valley Q 4006
* **Cost:** Free.

# Requirements for participation

Participants will be required to bring a suitable development machine
(portable) for working through the exercises. You will also need to install the Glasgow Haskell Compiler (http://www.haskell.org/ghc/) version 8 or higher on that machine.

You will require a local clone on your development machine, of two github repositories:

1. https://github.com/data61/fp-course/
2. https://github.com/qfpl/applied-fp-course

The Applied Functional Programming track requires a working install of
SQLite3 on your development machine. It has been tested with SQLite v3.21.0.

There are no other primary requirements. Reading up on Haskell syntax prior to the introductory material will be beneficial to progress.

#### Introduction or Applied Course?

Are you keen to attend, but unsure which track is best for you?

Take a look at this article.

http://qfpl.io/posts/intro-or-applied/

----

# Expression of Interest

Please register your expression of interest at https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1vpGqqWkL6_MkP028AAI6IVeQAnVxEDPUsXyEEw3ZTBI/
before
Wednesday 03 July 2019.

In your response, please address the questions below. These questions are used to ensure that your expectations are compatible with the courses. Note: Your answers will not be shared outside of the QFPL team.

1. How would you rate your level of understanding of functional programming?
2. What would you hope to get out of the session?

Please note that numbers are limited due to room size and safety regulatory requirements. You will be notified on or before 04 July 2019 of your participation.
